# Math PDF

## Description:
**Math PDF** is a python program that generates a PDF file with math problems to solve.

## Usage:

With python3 running on a local machine, the user should enter one of the following commands on a terminal to install the required library: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
or `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`, making sure to enter the commands after moving into
the program directory via `cd math-pdf`

Once the installation is complete, the program can then be executed with:
`python3 main.py` or `python main.py`
The user will then be prompted to input the letter of the desired type of problem to solve:

What would you like to practice today?

a -> Addition

s -> Substraction

m -> Multiplication

d -> Division

The program will handle accidental whitespace inputs and it will be case insensitive,
however, a re-prompt will occur if the user inputs any other character.

Once the user has entered an appropiate character, the program will finish executing,
resulting in a generated PDF file containing different math problems for the user to solve.

## Contents of the project:

**Math PDF** is comprised of four different files:

`main.py` -> This is the main file that runs the program, it contains the logic for generating the desired PDF file.

`test_main.py` -> The purpose of this file is to ensure that `main.py` generates valid math problems that the user can solve.

`requirements.txt` -> Contains the library that is required for `main.py` to work appropriately.

`README.md` -> Provides an overview of the project.

## Generated files: 

**Math PDF** outputs a PDF file named `output.pdf` and can optionally generate two cache directories that can be ignored when `test_main.py` is executed via `pytest test_main.py`

## Design choices:

**The following section discusses the implementation of the project and it does not contain any relevant information about the usage of the program.**

`main.py:`

When the user runs the program, `fpdf` and `random` libraries are loaded, followed by the definition of a "PDF" class per `fpdf` documentation: https://pyfpdf.github.io/fpdf2/Tutorial.html

The program continues by starting a `main` function which enters a `while True` loop displaying via `print` the available options for generating the desired PDF file, followed by an `input()` function for the user to enter an option, taking care of the input and exiting the loop once an appropiate input has been entered.

`main` continues by entering the corresponding "if" statement depending on the selected option, each statement continues the execution of the program by declaring an instance of the "PDF" class previously defined, calling the `add_page()` and `set_font()` methods aswell.

`output.pdf` is generated by entering a `for loop` which passes a formatted string that includes the generation of random integers via `random.randint()` function, prefixing "=" and "+ - x /" as string characters.

Before generating the PDF file via `pdf.output()`, the formatted string is passed into a variable, passing it into a testing function like `valid_division()`

The program finally ends with the definition of each testing function, which checks that the formatted string is valid by splitting it via `split()` and checking for numeric characters via `isnumeric()`

`test_main.py:` 

If the user wants to run this file, it shall be done via `pytest test_main.py`, which results in the file asserting each testing function defined in `main.py`
